Add technical court documentation (#81)
zeitgeistpm/documentation: docs/learn/court.md

Zeitgeist implements a decentralized court to handle disputes that may arise in
the resolution of prediction markets outcomes.

### Terminology

- court hopping: joining the court just to receive token emission benefits and then exiting the court
- court pool: all jurors and delegators
- draw weight: one slash-able `MinJurorStake` that belongs to one vote weight
- global dispute: a token voting mechanism for all ZTG holders
- participant: a juror or delegator account inside the court pool

> - vote weight: the derivative voting value of one draw weight; it represents one `MinJurorStake`

Reviewer: This needs to be spell-checked. Capitalization at the start of each item, capitalization after the colon and full stop at the end of sentences.

### General introduction

The court system is responsible for ensuring that accurate information is added to the blockchain. Prediction markets, which rely on truthful data, reward traders who base their decisions on accurate information. If someone provides false information, they will be punished, while those who share accurate information will be rewarded. In essence, the court is a stake-weighted, plurality decision-making machine. Zeitgeist's court makes use of the so called "Shelling point". This is achieved by voting in secret and revealing the raw vote information later. The outcome with the most votes wins (plurality).

### Connection of court to prediction markets

> The court serves as a dispute resolution mechanism, which is activated if the market creator specifies it. The market creator also designates the oracle account responsible for reporting the winning outcome. For example, in a soccer game, the market question may be: Which team will win? The outcome tokens could be "A" for the first team winning, "B" for the second team winning, and "DRAW" for a tie. After the game is over and the final winner is, for example, team "A", the oracle adds this information to the blockchain.

Author: https://github.com/zeitgeistpm/documentation/commit/da8d58860da7f2815e716f828eabaffc37da0b48

### Calculating necessary draw weights

If a juror votes against the plurality decision, they are penalized by a multiple of a constant amount (`n * MinJurorStake`). The penalized amount is rewarded proportionally to the jurors and delegators who backed the most-voted outcome. The amount of penalty risk depends on the juror's overall stake. When a court case is triggered by the prediction markets functionality, the court requests a small multiple of the constant amount (currently `31 * MinJurorStake`) from the total stake of all jurors and delegators randomly. The current configuration of `MinJurorStake` is `500 ZTG`. So, `31 * 500 ZTG = 15,500 ZTG` are randomly drawn from the total stake for the first court round.

The formula to determine the necessary requested vote weight for each appeal is as follows:

> `2^(appeal_number) * 31 + 2^(appeal_number) - 1`

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```
2^(appeal_number) * 31 + 2^(appeal_number) - 1
```
~~~

(Or using LaTeX.)

So the maximum amount of stake risked by all randomly selected jurors and delegators in the last court round (3) is:

`2^(3) * 31 + 2^(3) - 1 = 255`

> `255 * 500 ZTG = 127,500 ZTG`

Author: https://github.com/zeitgeistpm/documentation/commit/b53c5cabe9b56ea4bf50e917b2f228959f2b6b86

The `YearlyInflation` is able to get set by a `MonetaryGovernanceOrigin` and the extrinsic `set_inflation`.

The reward per participant is calculated as the following:

```text
YearlyInflationAmount = YearlyInflation * TotalIssuance
IssuePerBlock = YearlyInflationAmount / BlocksPerYear
InflationPeriodMint = IssuePerBlock * InflationPeriod

for (Participant, ParticipantStake) in CourtPool {
    Share = ParticipantStake / ParticipantsTotalStake;
    MintAmount = Share * InflationPeriodMint;
    deposit(Participant, MintAmount)
}
```

The court is inspired by [Kleros][], a project that has
already experimented with an on-chain court system.

> [kleros]: https://kleros.io/

Author: https://github.com/zeitgeistpm/documentation/commit/a7d1dc2b5387a4517bd1cfc9fd086044521e5aed

to the blockchain. Prediction markets, which rely on truthful data, reward
traders who base their decisions on accurate information. If someone provides
false information, they will be punished, while those who share accurate
information will be rewarded. In essence, the court is a stake-weighted
plurality decision-making machine. Zeitgeist's court makes use of the so-called
[_Schelling point_][]. This is achieved by voting in secret and revealing the
raw vote information later. The outcome with the most votes wins (plurality).
The court serves as a dispute resolution mechanism. The court is inspired by
[Kleros][], a project that has already experimented with an on-chain court
system.

### Dispute Management within Court

If the oracle submits the wrong outcome due to malicious behaviour, disputes
come into play in such cases. Anyone can dispute the oracle report, and once a
dispute is triggered, the court takes over. The court is comprised of jurors and
delegators who need to lock a certain amount of ZTG tokens to join the court
system. The more tokens locked, the higher the probability of being selected as

> an active voter (juror) or delegator, who risks funds on behalf of delegated

Reviewer: The term _voter_ is only mentioned here once. You seem to be using the term _active juror_ for the rest of the document.

Author: https://github.com/zeitgeistpm/documentation/pull/81/commits/a19875040e67869b6cc091dad09edd5163eef651

> an active voter (juror) or delegator, who risks funds on behalf of delegated

Author: ```suggestion
an active juror or delegator, who risks funds on behalf of delegated
```

jurors. Delegators can transfer their voting rights to active jurors, who
participate in the voting system. The court uses a plurality voting system,
meaning the outcome with the most votes wins. Each market is associated with one

> inner court, which can be appealed multiple times if someone believes the

Reviewer: The term _inner court_ doesn't seem to have been defined. It seems to be used equivalently to _court case_.

Author: https://github.com/zeitgeistpm/documentation/pull/81/commits/a19875040e67869b6cc091dad09edd5163eef651

> inner court, which can be appealed multiple times if someone believes the

Author: ```suggestion
court case, which can be appealed multiple times if someone believes the
```

jurors' decision is unjustified.

> ### Global Disputes as the last Instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Global Disputes as the Last Instance
```

their stake at any time by calling `join_court`or `delegate` with a higher
amount than the previous call to these functions. To decrease the stake, it’s
necessary to exit the court (see ”Exiting court”). To update the pool item
associated to a court participant, there are two binary searches, the first for
finding the pool item (the search key is a tuple of stake and the participant
account id) and with the previous data and the second for inserting the updated
data inside the pool again.

For the `delegate` extrinsic, the function argument `delegations` contains a
list of account ids. The dispatch function ensures that the list of
`delegations` contains actually account ids which are actively participating
jurors. The list needs to contain at least one account and all account ids need
to be unique.

### Exiting the Court

Each juror and delegator can exit the court system to retrieve their remaining
funds. If the juror or delegator is still actively involved in inner court
cases, only the unused (non-active) funds are returned. The unused stake is
equivalent to the stake that was not already selected by the selection algorithm

> (see “The selection algorithm”). In order to exit the court and get the funds

Reviewer: The title here needs to be capitalized properly. You could also add a link to the section.

Author: https://github.com/zeitgeistpm/documentation/pull/81/commits/a19875040e67869b6cc091dad09edd5163eef651

> (see “The selection algorithm”). In order to exit the court and get the funds

Author: ```suggestion
(see “The Selection Algorithm”). In order to exit the court and get the funds
```

back as a juror or delegator, one has to call the `prepare_exit_court`
extrinsic. This extrinsic removes the participant from the court pool and saves
the current block number to notice when the unused funds can be returned.

With the introduction of the inflation period it is required to restrict court
hopping. It is possible that users enter the court whenever the rewards of the
inflationary system get spend (see chapter “Incentives”). Thus, we put a locking
period of `InflationPeriod` in place in the case that a juror wants to exit the
court. So after a participant requested to leave the court system (extrinsic
`prepare_exit_court`), the participant has to wait at least another inflation
period to get the staked funds back. To finally return the unused funds, the
participant needs to evoke the `exit_court` dispatch function. The used funds
(`active_lock`) still remain locked.

> ### Calculating necessary Draw Weights

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Calculating Necessary Draw Weights
```

If a juror votes against the plurality decision, they are penalized by a
multiple of a constant amount (`n * MinJurorStake`). The penalized amount is
rewarded proportionally to the jurors and delegators who backed the most-voted
outcome. The amount of penalty risk depends on the juror's overall stake. When a
court case is triggered by the prediction markets functionality, the court
requests a small multiple of the constant amount (currently
`31 * MinJurorStake`) from the total stake of all jurors and delegators

> randomly. The current configuration of `MinJurorStake` is `500 ZTG`. So,

Reviewer: The formatting of amounts of currency is inconsistent throughout the document. Sometimes it's in backticks, like here, sometimes its not.

Author: https://github.com/zeitgeistpm/documentation/pull/81/commits/5063537295985e0db33bc808be8220ca164b2d1c

`31 * 500 ZTG = 15,500 ZTG` are randomly drawn from the total stake for the
first court round.

The formula to determine the necessary requested vote weight for each appeal is
as follows:

```
2^(appeal_number) * 31 + 2^(appeal_number) - 1
```

> Assume one specific court case is in the last appeal round (3). The number of

Author: ```suggestion
Assume one specific court case is in the last appeal round (`3`). The number of
```

> randomly selected draw weights for jurors and delegators is 255, and, therefore,

Author: ```suggestion
randomly selected draw weights for jurors and delegators is `255`, and, therefore,
```

> the amount of requested ZTG is 127,500 ZTG.

Author: ```suggestion
the amount of requested ZTG is `127,500 ZTG`.
```

consists of a BlakeTwo256 hash of the juror account, the vote item (outcome),
and a salt. The salt is a hash derived from the juror's signature of the
specific court ID. Without a salt, a malicious actor could try every vote item
to obtain raw information. If a juror's salt is known before the voting phase
ends, they could be exposed and penalized (extrinsic `denounce_vote`) by those
aware of the salt. This adds a layer of protection against cheating and
increases trust in the system.

### Appeals

After the aggregation phase ends and all jurors have had the chance to make
their votes public, anyone can appeal the plurality decision (during the appeal
period). This triggers a new court round with more requested jurors and
delegators' stakes or (in case after the last round) allows a global dispute to
take over. If nobody appeals, the court resolves based on the plurality decision
of the last court round. Finally, the losers must pay the winners proportionally
to their selected stakes for the specific court case (extrinsic
`reassign_court_stakes`).

In order to make an appeal, the caller of `appeal` has to reserve a bond. The
cost of an appeal is calculated as following:

> `cost of appeal = AppealBond * 2^(appeal_number + 1)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cost of appeal = AppealBond * 2^(appeal_number + 1)`.
```

1. first appeal cost: `2000 ZTG (AppealBond) * 2^1 = 4000 ZTG`
2. second appeal cost: `2000 ZTG (AppealBond) * 2^2 = 8000 ZTG`

> 3. third appeal cost: `2000 ZTG (AppealBond) + 2^3 = 16000 ZTG`

Reviewer: First letter needs to be capitalized here.

Author: https://github.com/zeitgeistpm/documentation/pull/81/commits/a19875040e67869b6cc091dad09edd5163eef651

more than two outcomes, which received the same amount of votes. In this case
the court resolves on the winner outcome of the last appeal round. If there was
no previous appeal round, the court resolves on the oracle report again.

### Incentives

By making good decisions, you can be rewarded by those who lose. This is done by
the extrinsic `reassign_court_stakes`. At the end of the appeal phase, the court
resolves on a winning outcome (see ”Determining the winner outcome”). This
winner outcome is then compared to the jurors voted outcomes. All jurors and
delegators who sided with a different outcome to the winner outcome get slashed
according to their draw weights. All jurors, who failed to vote or failed to
reveal the encrypted vote or got denounced, and their delegators get slashed
according to their draw weights too. All jurors and their delegators, who sided
with the winner outcome get the previously mentioned slashed funds proportional
to their share of all the other winner stake (`total_winner_stake`).

Additionally, the court system is incentivized by inflation. Participants who
stake funds in the court receive newly minted tokens proportional to their

> stake. The current configuration involves a yearly inflation rate of 2% for all

Author: ```suggestion
stake. The current configuration involves a yearly inflation rate of `2%` for all
```

### Commitment Voting

The voting system uses a commit-reveal scheme, which is required to prevent
jurors from simply voting for the obvious plurality decision. There are voting,
aggregation, and appeal phases. During the voting phase, jurors cast their votes
as encrypted hashes (extrinsic `vote`), which must later be revealed (extrinsic
`reveal_vote`) as raw information. If a juror fails to vote or reveal their
vote, they lose their stake for that specific court case. The encrypted hash
consists of a BlakeTwo256 hash of the juror account, the vote item (outcome),
and a salt. The salt is a hash derived from the juror's signature of the
specific court ID. Without a salt, a malicious actor could try every vote item
to obtain raw information. If a juror's salt is known before the voting phase
ends, they could be exposed and penalized (extrinsic `denounce_vote`) by those
aware of the salt. This adds a layer of protection against cheating and
increases trust in the system.

### Appeals

After the aggregation phase ends and all jurors have had the chance to make
their votes public, anyone can appeal the plurality decision (during the appeal

> period). This triggers a new court round with more requested jurors and
> delegators' stakes or (in case after the last round) allows a global dispute to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
period). This triggers a new court round with more requested jurors and total stake or (in case after the last round) allows a global dispute to
```

Author: Replacing `delegator's` by `total stake` doesn't really fit here. I renamed it to `court participants stakes`.

and given to the treasury. This punishes the malicious behaviour that someone
appeals the correct outcome.

The last possible call to `appeal` is necessary for the global dispute to get
triggered, because there has to be some kind of financial commitment to appeal
the winner outcome of the last appeal round.

### Determining the Winner Outcome

The basic concept is to get the outcome with the most juror vote weights and use
that as winner outcome. But there are two edge cases with that approach. If
there are no jurors who actually revealed the raw vote information, because of
different reasons like inactivity, denounces or other reasons, the court uses
the oracle report as the winner outcome. The second edge case is that there are
more than two outcomes, which received the same amount of votes. In this case
the court resolves on the winner outcome of the last appeal round. If there was
no previous appeal round, the court resolves on the oracle report again.

### Incentives

By making good decisions, you can be rewarded by those who lose. This is done by
the extrinsic `reassign_court_stakes`. At the end of the appeal phase, the court

> resolves on a winning outcome (see ”Determining the winner outcome”). This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
resolves on a winning outcome (see [Determining the winner outcome](#determining-the-winner-outcome)). This
```

winner outcome is then compared to the jurors voted outcomes. All jurors and
delegators who sided with a different outcome to the winner outcome get slashed

> according to their draw weights. All jurors, who failed to vote or failed to
> reveal the encrypted vote or got denounced, and their delegators get slashed
> according to their draw weights too. All jurors and their delegators, who sided
> with the winner outcome get the previously mentioned slashed funds proportional
> to their share of all the other winner stake (`total_winner_stake`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
according to their draw weights. All jurors who failed to vote or failed to
reveal the encrypted vote or got denounced, as well as their delegators, get also slashed
according to their draw weights. All jurors and their delegators who sided
with the winner outcome get the previously mentioned slashed funds proportional
to their share of all the other winner stake (`total_winner_stake`).
```

Additionally, the court system is incentivized by inflation. Participants who
stake funds in the court receive newly minted tokens proportional to their
stake. The current configuration involves a yearly inflation rate of `2%` for
all jurors and delegators in the court system. Inflation is applied at regular
intervals, known as `InflationPeriod`, to reduce the strain on the blockchain.
To prevent users from joining the court just to receive token emissions (court
hopping), they must remain in the court for at least one full `InflationPeriod`
before they can receive inflation rewards. The block number at the point of a
participant joining the court system is saved as `joined_at` in the court pool
item. Assume now is the current block number, the inflation is rewarded to a
participant if the following condition is true:
`now - joined_at ≥ InflationPeriod`.

> The `YearlyInflation` is able to get set by a `MonetaryGovernanceOrigin` and the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `YearlyInflation` can be configured by a `MonetaryGovernanceOrigin` using the
```
